[00:00:00.240]
Now, please put down the teapot in your hands, it is a mighty weapon. What will led white Whitney to
Twitter?

[00:00:09.210]
People are always anxious to avoid conversations about death. Widows scare them, and there's no
better disguise than fear. Sometimes you have to dangle your legs in the water, attract the sharks,
paint your own picture. Winola. Don't be thrown off course by others, especially men. Mother believed
privacy was the highest virtue and the one most frequently violated. Oh well, it is early in the morning
for us. The game is afoot. And today on Fellman Rocks, we are talking about the new Netflix hit and
NOLA Homes from twenty twenty.

[00:00:58.130]
Oh, welcome back to the film On the Rocks. I had to rerecord that intro a couple of times just because
I kept saying to the year 2002, tis I Brucker.

[00:01:08.210]
I'm joined by my good buddy, Nate. Nate, how are you doing? I'm doing great, man. It's early. I don't
blame you.

[00:01:16.750]
OK, I want three hours of sleep people. I'm so sorry. He's up there as I sleep. We have a lot of
announcements to make, a lot of things to get to. We're excited for that. So it's like our mind is a little
bit elsewhere. But we're we're present also. Absolutely. And thank you, gentle listener, for coming by
to listen to this episode of Film On the Rocks if you're new and checking us out because we were
covering a new movie.

[00:01:39.550]
Thank you. We are a movie podcast. We like to have fun with movies. We like to come up with
drinking rules, talk about our favorite scenes, deeper messages and whether or not they deserve a
sequel. And this is something that we normally don't do. We normally don't do new ish movies like
this. We normally kind of do older movies that I've seen before. So that was easier for me to talk
about them. But when the trailer for an older homes dropped, I was pretty excited and I was like, you
know, we we should do that.

[00:02:05.980]
They'll be a good movie to do September. So, um, this also really, really fine movie to celebrate our
one year anniversary as a podcast. Oh, yes. It's been one year since we released our first episode on
The Sandlot. What that was going back to, listening to that God, holy cow.

[00:02:26.830]
This podcast has changed a lot is to go through a couple of hosts, some of those hosts multiple
times. Fine. But you hear happy one year anniversary.

[00:02:38.800]
Broecker. Thank you. I love you.

[00:02:40.930]
Now say it back. Say it back. Oh, my God. So one year forty movie recordings with a handful of other
bonus stuff, a patriot and one patron, over 6000 downloads, a sponsor. We've been put on shutter's
price list. It's just been a really fun year a lot. I have a lot to be proud of. I have had absolutely no clue
that we would have. Like I, I know we're still a small podcast, but I had no idea that we would be it
would be this much fun or have like this many listeners.

[00:03:14.650]
You know, first of all, as we are, I'm still very proud and happy about everything that we've done. So I
had no I just had I thought it'd take us forever to break 100, to be honest. So, I mean, I'm just happy to
be where we're at. Thank you, everybody, for listening to us and for writing a reviewing us and sharing
us. It's been a total blast. Yeah. Appreciate you guys. And just quickly, two more quick
announcements before we get officially into the homes discussion.

[00:03:41.350]
At the end of this podcast episode, we will be announcing our two shutter winners. We have a very
sweet letter from a listener that we are going to read, and that is pretty much it actually will kind of
preview some stuff we've got going on in October. But yeah. So stick around for those
announcements. But today, officially, my brain is scrambled eggs. We're talking about Winola Holmes,
you know, to Holmes. OK, let me go over the credentials before I ask you for your opinion.

[00:04:09.160]
No, Holmes came out on Netflix twenty twenty. This movie was directed by Harry Brad Bier. This
movie was actually produced by Millie Bobby Brown and her sister, Paige Brown. This movie was
written by Jack Thorne. Uh, this movie stars Millie, Bobby Brown, Helena Bonham Carter, Henry Cavill,
Sam Claflin Lewis, Patrick Byrne Gorham, Fiona Shaw, Frances de la Tour. The character in Holmes
was created by Nancy Springer. It's it's part of a six book series called The Winola Holmes Mysteries,
which was first published in 2006.

[00:04:48.100]
Two of those books have won Edgar Award for Best Juvenile Mystery. And this movie, the current
movie that we're talking about is an adaptation of the first book, The Case of the Missing Piece. Mate,
how are you doing? What do you think about Nola Holmes? Um, I'm doing good. I thought this movie
was fun, that I thought it was fun. But let's get into the until like the tomato meter just to kind of see
where we both land.

[00:05:16.270]
So Rotten Tomatoes has the tomato meter at ninety percent is fresh. OK, for the critics. Right. And
then the audience score is is actually a lot lower. It's a seventy percent interesting. And it's just a box
of popcorn. I don't know if that means anything.

[00:05:36.910]
I think the tomato meters change since the last time I've looked at this, uh, I'm landing more in the
middle between the critic and audience score. I'm sitting at about like eighty. I want to say, OK, I
definitely don't think it deserves a seventy and I absolutely believe it does not deserve ninety. Who just
based on a few a few nit picking things, but do you what do you land on this? Definitely not a 70. I
think I would be like mid to high 80s is where I would land on this smilies.

[00:06:10.920]
A lot of fun. I actually so I've watched it one and a half times now. And I could say as I was starting
my rewind halfway through my rewash, I'm enjoying it a lot more the second time go around. Not that
that's not to say that I didn't enjoy the first go around. I did enjoy it. I was kind of just it my
expectations were it was just different from what I was expecting. Mm. I was expecting this to be fully
focused on the mystery of where another home's mother was.

[00:06:43.230]
By the way, spoilers for this episode. In case people are new to this, we are spoiling this whole new
movie, so be sure to check it out. Yes, I was kind of expecting this. There should be more about the
whole investigation of where her mother went. And there was some interesting stuff about like what
her mom was getting into possibly. So I'm really interested in that. And then it kind of turned into this
whole mystery of the missing markese.

[00:07:07.620]
Um, but I mean, I didn't dislike it. I liked it a lot. It just kind of went crosseyed a couple of times
because I felt that the I think my biggest gripe about this movie is the sequencing, kind of just like the
how the plot unveiled. I kind of felt like some stuff could have happened at different points in the
movie for purpose of Flow. But but going through that, going through it again, like it's clicking a lot
better now that I have tempered my expectations.

[00:07:38.090]
Yeah, I did go in with high expectations to, um, because that trailer was hype, honestly. But I think I
completely agree with you, like in terms of the sequencing, like I don't feel like there was a continual
flow, especially in the storyline. It was almost like they kind of changed their mind halfway through. I
don't know. It just felt very obvious. I felt like we just came to a screeching halt like an hour into the
movie, and then we just went off into a different movie that we weren't expecting.

[00:08:05.550]
So it was. When was that point for you? Was it when she went to the finishing school? Was that it kind
of like when it felt like this movie was taking a commercial break? Yes. Yes. Because I was like that
seemed kind of soon. And that really did happen at like the halfway point in this movie.

[00:08:21.190]
Yeah, it did. And that's not to say they like the whole finishing school portion of this movie is
undeserved or should be admitted because I don't think it should be admitted. I think it's important
socially like to like the message of this movie, which we'll talk about towards the end.

[00:08:37.560]
But it just felt so like it just felt like the movie was taking a commercial break during this point
because, I mean, she ends up escaping it. So at the beginning of the movie, Minecraft is really
pushing and Nullah are not really pushing. He's forcing her to go to this finishing school. So and that's
why she escapes to London by the. But my grades just have her go to finishing school, like starting
out and have her escape from there.

[00:09:09.480]
So that way we don't have to escape scenes, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So and then I felt like the movie
would flow better that way, but that also just could be them staying true to the source material. I
haven't read the book. I don't know if that's the order of the events that are in the book. But if you have
the liberties of, you know, adapting it to film and critiquing in some ways, that's how I would have
fixed that.

[00:09:34.740]
But it was just kind of things like that. You know, I felt like we had to stop occasionally for like stuff
like this to be like, oh, we got to bring this back up, you know? Yeah.

[00:09:42.360]
And and even if it was like a like a direct adaptation of the book, I feel like you're still at liberty to to
kind of change things, because even though it's in the book, like, it's still not going to be it's not going
to come off the same way in the movie, because obviously in books you're able to give a little bit more
context. You know, you can add more give more to the characters in the book than you can in the
movies.

[00:10:05.430]
So it's just like sometimes you got to leave people out, like if you can't develop them enough within
like an hour and a half to our time limit or books have really unlimited time to kind of jump around as
they please in the movie. It's just like now you you've really got to keep people's attention. So this
thing is going to flow the right way. So I think that they could have done a better job there. But I mean,
it was a fun movie still.

[00:10:28.740]
Oh, yeah. No, I actually really enjoy this movie. Like I said, I think I had this mid to high eighties and I
think it was really good. I mean, the acting was great. I mean, seriously, I don't I don't think that there
is a weak spot in this for acting wise. The I really enjoy the character of Anula Holmes. She was very
witty and of course, clever because she's a Holmes. I really liked the casting of Henry Cavill as
Sherlock.
[00:10:55.350]
That was I was a. Prize at how much I enjoyed that I was yeah, I was pretty spot on because it's like
Henry Cavill is Superman, right? He's a very recognizable person, which kind of fits the bill because
Sherlock Holmes is like a huge deal. Right. So, like you would expect, like if they just had some new
buddy playing Sherlock Holmes, it just wouldn't have the same effect whenever he, like, popped on
screen that you get excited.

[00:11:22.700]
You get excited when you see Sherlock Holmes, because it's like, oh, I recognize that person. And if it
was just some nobody who just kind of be like, oh, wait, I forgot what Sherlock was supposed to look
like, but when it's Henry Cavill, like he's a good looking guy and he just very obviously stands out.

[00:11:36.080]
He looked jacked in this movie, right. Jack never seen a buff Sherlock Holmes before. So it was a
good casting and he played a great character. Honestly, I want to point out to at least in my lifetime, I
don't know, but I'm not super familiar about Sherlock Holmes like the law. I never read any Sherlock
Holmes stories or anything. I've only seen pieces of the Robert Downey Junior Sherlock Holmes
movies. But I kind of want to point out that at least into movie adaptations in my lifetime for Sherlock
Holmes, Robert Downey Jr.

[00:12:10.820]
and Henry Cavill, two huge superheroes in their own respective Marvel and DC universes, a kind of
find that interesting. It really is. And I think they actually both did a pretty good job. I feel like there's a
lot of ways you can go with Sherlock Holmes, and they didn't choose the wrong one for either either
casting. Right. Right. Because Robert Downey Jr. needs a little more clever. You know, he's more an
off the cuff.

[00:12:35.930]
Right. And this is what you can expect whenever, you know, Sherlock's kind of making his deductions
with Henry Cavill like he's a little bit more pensive. He's just kind of maybe a little more stoic. He looks
like he's not really expressing what he's thinking. He's kind of just reserved. And that's also something
that they really point out a lot in this movie about not indecisive is wrong, but like how much in the
middle he is and he doesn't express what he thinks maybe is right, especially with this whole reform
issue of their trying to pass this bill of women's suffrage.

[00:13:08.420]
That's what a major plot point is. Movie is, is that getting that bill passed and how they talk about how
Sherlock is such an ostrich for this, like, he just he doesn't stick his neck out for either side. He's so
indifferent and actually does more harm than good, which we will get to.

[00:13:25.230]
But I also feel like that they used a incredible amount of restraint on his character because he could
obviously very easily steal the show just because just because of the big name Sherlock Holmes.
Right. And this movie is not about him. It's about his sister, Anila Holmes. And you kind of sometimes
forget that Anila Holmes is his sister when we're focusing on her plot line. And and I don't really think
that's a good or bad thing. I think that's just it's just a thing.

[00:13:56.060]
I think it works fine. You don't need to be constantly reminded that she's a Holmes or, you know, that
she has this pedigree with her. I think that, you know, you kind of see how witty and clever and smart
she is and resourceful throughout the movie and has nothing to do with, like, Sherlock. Like he didn't
train her. I mean I mean, she obviously idolizes him. And we kind of see that she really admires and
has has a drive to be like her older brother in a good way.

[00:14:26.720]
But it doesn't I feel like it doesn't overshadow the character of Winola Holmes. Like she's very much
her own person in this. She held her own for sure. Oh, yeah, absolutely. And that's something that
Millie Bobby Brown said that she really liked about this. So, like so doing the research. So this is a
brand new movie. It was kind of difficult to find fun trivia on this, but the story of how the ball got
rolling for this movie to get produce was really interesting.

[00:14:54.110]
So Millie, Bobby Brown sister, Paige Brown introduced her to this book, this book series, and she's
like, oh, you'll like it, trust me.

[00:15:03.140]
And Billy, it was kind of like, OK, whatever. But she read it. She really liked it. She like, read the books
and she loved the character Vanilla Homes because it was a very unique thing in her whole idea or her
perspective on it was that Sherlock Holmes, his stories are very male centric. And so and this one is a
very female centric right. And she really like that. And the character A Holmes gave a very young and
strong female role to, you know, look to and she really was drawn to that.

[00:15:36.410]
So she talked to her dad and their production company, PCMCIA, and to get this movie produced and
rolling and Millie Bobby Brown, as I said at the top, she is a producer on this movie. So she had a hand
in finding the director, the writer and all this stuff. So she was and she's only sixteen. That's crazy. So
is it really? To see that she had she was part of like getting things going for this, so I have a question.

[00:16:01.720]
And this was something else kind of stuck on. And once I, like, dug more like read or watch interviews
of Millie Bobby Brown. Oh, I finally get it. But how did you first feel about all the fourth wall breaking in
this movie?

[00:16:13.840]
I loved it. That's so cool. Especially because she was so clever and I love movies or shows like that.
Like, I know. I know this is like problematic now, but whatever House of Cards had come out. Mm
hmm. What's his face would break the wall and break the fourth wall and kind of talk to you and kind
of tell you how like we'd see him have one conversation, like in the in the TV show, and then he'd
break the fourth wall and talk to you and be like, I'm actually screwing this person over.

[00:16:44.350]
And here's why. Let's see how this develops. And it really it kind of brought me back to that feeling
because I think it's so fun. I like to know a little bit more than what's going on the screen, because
obviously we know what's going on since we're observing. But at the same time, like getting into the
mind of this character, I think is was really nice. And it really showed us how witty and clever she was
in ways that maybe they couldn't portray through acting, you know what I mean?

[00:17:09.550]
Maybe harder to penetrate through, like the plot progression. Yes, a little bit. Because it kind of
because I mean, it was her acting. I was so good. I don't mind fourth wall breaking like I actually kind
of like that. But I was like, man, they're like really leaning into it is kind of heavy handed. It was heavy.
However, when I was watching interviews, the director, Brad Behar, said that he actually that's
something that drew him to the script for this.

[00:17:35.170]
He said he liked it, that it was his young female character going to the audience. Hey, I'm going on this
adventure. You're coming with me, right? Like like she's, like, dragging you with her. And I was kind of
like, you know, like, who's the target audience really? Like, who is this forces for? Like younger people.
Older people like my overall family. And I was like something I was kind of stuck on because the
violence in this was like pretty violent.

[00:17:58.690]
I thought especially some of her fight scenes with Boulder had. But, you know, we have all like these
cutesy fourth wall cutting stuff that she does. So and this is what made me go, OK, this is why this is
important. So, Millie, Bobby Brown in an interview said that the besides being drawn to this because
it's a young female lead her, she liked all the fourth wall breaking because it was like directly talking to
little girls.

[00:18:25.810]
And so she said, like a really good example was that her younger sister, who is eight years old, has
never really been interested in watching any of her movies or like stranger things or like God. So she's
like she's never been she's never been able to hold her attention in those films. Like Ava, her sister
always, like, still brings up the iPad or whatever, gets distracted. You know, it's like the kid's version of
texting during a movie.

[00:18:48.190]
She said that as soon as the movie starts with a nullah going where to begin? You know, she was she
immediately through the iPad away and she was just drawn.

[00:18:56.830]
And whenever she would like, you know, you know, wink at the camera or be like, do you have any
good ideas, you know, kind of thing that kept her engaged the whole time and or things like I think like
a really good example probably was and I am now speculating this wasn't I'm not quoting Millie Bobby
Brown anymore, but during the crazy fight scene with Boulder Head, when she's being drowned, she
plays possum. She like plays dead, but she like gives equal weight to the Catholic, you know, I'm all
right.

[00:19:27.580]
And I feel like, OK, I get who that's for now, not exactly her sister, but, you know, like the little little kid
watching this and being on this is like, OK, so I get who this is for. And it's like really fun and clever
and it keeps them engaged in. This two hour plus movie are like that now. I really get I get why that's
important for this movie. Yeah. I 100 percent agree with what you're saying.

[00:19:51.040]
I, I had it written down. This is a great tween movie. Right. The tweeners between like you're single
single age years and your teenage years. And I really I think I got past the violence because I feel like
kids these days are really desensitized, like an especially in our generation to.

[00:20:07.330]
Right. Yeah. So it's not really as big a deal. And I think this movie, did it have like a PG 13 tag on it? I
believe so, yeah. OK, yeah. And I think that's just for ratings sake. I don't think anybody really follows
that anymore. Like, I know my parents didn't. Right. I was watching Reidar movies that. Yeah. Six
years old, unfortunately, when I turned out OK.

[00:20:31.960]
So I didn't think that the rating itself for the violence was really a big deal because kids see it a lot
nowadays. But it was definitely, definitely for a younger audience. And I think I don't know it not so
much for adults. Yeah. I mean it it's still enjoyable for adults. It was so fun to watch. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It really fun movie. I liked it too. And I really like how much it said it.

[00:20:55.270]
It's. How much of like a period piece it is, because that's something I wasn't really thinking about
going into it, but I was like, you know, the costumes look great. There's the settings all looked, you
know, I was just buying into the immersion that they were trying to give you.

[00:21:10.490]
Yeah. And I like a lot like settings like that. A very, very much felt Harry Potter ish. Right. OK, with all
like the like the scenic landscapes that we were seeing with the train.

[00:21:22.040]
And I'm pretty sure that in the actors and the actors. Yeah. And then we're in London, right. Yes. Just
me drawing very small conclusions. Big one big conclusion from very small details throughout the
movie, but it was fun. So before we hopped on, you mentioned that there was a lawsuit about this
movie, OK?

[00:21:43.400]
Yeah. So with this movie, the creator of Sherlock Holmes is Sir Arthur Arthur Conan Doyle, which he is
he has since passed away. This is Sherlock Holmes is a very old character, but his estate sued Netflix
for how they portrayed Sherlock Holmes in this movie. And so I guess how this works is that if you if
you pretty much own, like, the copyright for different stories, you own different ways of how the
character can be portrayed. So the Conan Doyle estate owns like the last 10 stories of Sherlock
Holmes.

[00:22:19.790]
And these are the stories that portray Sherlock Holmes is becoming like a little bit warmer to people
like because he's typically portrayed as like a cold person. So this is him developing emotions,
developing feelings. And this is state argue that in this movie we get that out of Sherlock Holmes
because he gets warmer to Winola. He's a little bit more kind and he's less of an ostrich. You know,
it's becoming less in the middle, leaning more towards one side.

[00:22:46.610]
So they said that was a copyright violation. And within days, Wright is sued the heck out of them. So I
guess we'll see how that plays out. I'm sure some settlement is going to come in there because I can
kind of see where where they're coming from.

[00:23:01.460]
But it's kind of I mean, it's basically bad that they gave him emotions of B, he had like less than one
percent of emotions, like, let's be honest, that this movie, like he smiled once, the smile that's emotion
he gave, he gave exactly one ha.

[00:23:22.400]
Like, that's it. Like, give me a fucking break. But that's the people who get pissed about everything. But
all right. Also I wonder how much like like how they would actually like value that. I don't know how
like these cases go but since there's no box office release like I wonder like what, what they can argue
for, like what kind of stakes that they can like.

[00:23:46.520]
We actually lost money so you can you can take some of this debt that we accumulated.

[00:23:51.950]
Just transfer it to them. Yeah. Yeah. Here you go.

[00:23:55.250]
Thank you. Oh, I don't know. I don't know. It's it's a lot. Yeah. But I think with that in mind of how you
can kind of own what type of characters we have, I'm very curious to see another aspect of Sherlock
Holmes. Sorry, I know we're supposed to be talking about Winola, which I'm realizing I think might
have already been created, but it's the drug user, Sherlock Holmes. Oh, OK. So I know we're supposed
to be doing a.

[00:24:26.690]
. Holmes, but this is a fun fact about Sherlock. Real quick is that there is there is a drug abuser,
Sherlock Holmes, in the world where he's got like a more morphine and cocaine addiction and he uses
this when he doesn't have stimulating cases. And I think that we might have gotten that in the show
house. Back in the day, yeah, kind of just right, so I take it back, but the thing is, I don't want to see
that anymore.

[00:24:54.910]
I've seen the show. Oh, man. I did like last little fun piece of trivia I saw for the it was just like the
collaboration between Millie, Bobby Brown and the director, Brad Behar on the the fight scenes like
how they choreographed them. And I don't know if this is because they filmed this during covid times
or what, but her and her stunt coordinator would record or choreograph the fights themselves, like on
an iPad and then just like send those videos to Brad Beer.

[00:25:28.390]
And he would be like, oh, yeah, this is good. Now I take this out. Do you have any other jujitsu moves
that you could, like, do like in place of it? So that's like how they collaborated on the choreography of
the fight sequences, but like her and her stunt person just going at it on an iPad and just sending over
to the director and him giving feedback does like how they collaborated on that. I thought I was kind
of that sounds very difficult in the world.

[00:25:54.550]
That's impressive, though. Yeah, I really commend them for that. It was pretty cool seeing some of the
training she takes. I mean, you know, she did, you know, these stunts, you know, she was fighting and
everything in there. So it was pretty cool. It's also I just find it hilarious. I just love that move that like
kids do or like maybe just like people do sometimes in fights where their move is to, they just jump on
the back of the like attacker.

[00:26:19.610]
It just turns into like flailing around. It always looks goofy, but hilarious, like like, you know, in a fun
way. So I just I remember seeing her like I saw like a clip of them practicing that. I was like, that's
hilarious. Just let me practice this aggressive piggyback ride. That's hilarious.

[00:26:39.820]
Can I can I tell you a fun story about something like that? Please do. So back in high school, in the
younger years of high school, I dabbled in wrestling.

[00:26:50.620]
And so my first practice, I obviously I didn't know anything. Right. And so they're like, all right, guys,
we're practicing takedowns. And like, I don't even know how to describe a takedown just because I
really was not into it.

[00:27:02.830]
And apparently I like I was just supposed to go after this person. And that's exactly what I did. I just
jumped on this person's back and a trained wrestler knew exactly how to handle and do just like threw
me, slammed me on the ground. Please tell me you're, like, screeching the whole time. I couldn't
breathe. I couldn't breathe. But whatever I see people like jump on the back, like in the movies like
that, I get so embarrassed because I'm like, OK, I know how that actually plays out.

[00:27:38.590]
No, don't do it. Do not do that, please. All right. Well, before we get into the drinking rules for Anello
Holmes, I want to first thank our sponsor for today. Support me. Support is a super awesome
accountability service that helps you meet your goal. You get partnered up with accountability, buddy.
You all come up with a nice personalized plan to come to help you meet your goals. And you also help
your accountability buddies stay on track with their goals as well.

[00:28:05.380]
It's really nice. Is people helping people. I love their message. Their whole idea of support is that if you
have somebody holding you accountable to a plan, you're more likely to stick to that plan, meet your
goals. So be sure to head to get support dotcom. Tell them that Fellman or Accenture or you could
download the free app today from this movie. I feel like the whole city of London could have you could
have used some accountability, just, you know, passed that reform bill.

[00:28:30.310]
I mean, like, you know, what the fuck are we even talking about? I understand that was a very taboo
thing at the time, letting uneducated people vote, whatever, get the get the fuck over yourselves. But,
Nate, was there anything specific that you thought could give you some support from this movie? I
liked yours better, but I said Nola's mom in the movie because she does such a great job. Right,
raising Winola and being present in her life and teaching her the facts of the world.

[00:28:58.990]
Right. But at the very end, she just kind of like tapers off and leaves her child to fend for herself. It's
like, damn, dude, you know, like I mean, she did kind of set her up to survive on her own. But at the
same time, like, damn is your child.

[00:29:13.540]
Like, don't let her just he almost got murdered, right? Yeah, that's that's a good point. That's
something I definitely want to bring up here a little bit. But yeah. So be sure to her to get support
dotcom. Tell them that Fellman or Accenture and you can start your two week free trial today. So
that's a very interesting point you brought up. And I want to put a little pin in that and circle back to
that point.

[00:29:36.160]
We go. Let's talk about that when we get down the drinking rules. How about that? That's where we
will place that. But start us off with drinking rules. Excited. See what you guys. OK, so I did four
instead of five, because this is this is a very I don't want it's not now. I don't I don't know if it was
difficult. It was just like this movie does a lot of things a lot of times.

[00:30:02.040]
So I five was excessive specifically to my rules. So here they are. First one is every time Winola
Holmes breaks the fourth wall. So whenever she talks to the camera, take a drink. That alone is pretty
much the only rule that you need, right? Yeah, that's a dangerous one for sure. I mean, that was a
really fun one as well.

[00:30:23.040]
Mm hmm. And then every time Enrollers name is said, I just think it's a fun winola. You know, this is a
fun, you know, love, you know? And I said, take a drink. I hate my iPhone four. Whenever I was texting
about, there's always auto corrected to Ebola. Ebola get with the Times iPhone. Yeah. Don't you
realize this movie came out today? What did you correct it? Finish your drink whenever we see a
missing persons flyer.

[00:30:52.650]
So we see that oh, just a couple of times and then spread out enough to the point where it's like
you've probably started in a new drink at this point.

[00:31:00.090]
You gotta finish it. And then my final rule was another finish your drink and it's finished your drink
when you hear the word cantankerous, cantankerous, dare I say so? No, just once. But I think that's
just such a fun word.

[00:31:18.330]
And I don't know, it's just fun to listen for because you think it's just going to be like slipped in there.
You won't notice it, but they just like it. It just stands out and you're just going to know when that
happens. And I think that's a fun thing. If you're like with a group of people and you're all kind of
listening and you can, like, jump up and like scream, I can't because that's what they said.

[00:31:37.180]
Do you drink instead of me? That's the word of the day. It is. No. And I think that's fun because I do I
also I do the word of the day type of thing and try to like fit it in my my daily sentences. And that's just
a fun one. I haven't had a I try that one today, so we kind of just did.

[00:31:53.880]
But I'm just kidding. Yeah. I completed I would record what you have. So my rolls I have, I have a few
so I'll just go over again, pick and choose at your own discretion. So I had a similar alternates
breaking the fourth wall, but my rule was specifically whenever she was in conversation with
somebody and she breaks the fourth wall. That's a good one because there's a handful of times
where she does it, where she is talking, you know, and she's just talking to herself or just just
spending time alone.

[00:32:24.780]
But whenever it's specifically in a conversation, do it. And it was really fine. Henry Cavill talked about
this. He said that it was extremely difficult for the other actors to not break when she broke the fourth
wall because, you know, they couldn't crack a smile or like look off to the distance because that like
that let the audience know, like, oh, they realize that she's not paying attention to them right now. You
know, that line isn't supposed to break.

[00:32:52.110]
So he said it was really it was a challenge for the other actors. But they said that he said that he was
impressed with how well Millie Bobby Brown did. And again, we've said this extremely charming,
doing it like she nailed it. Great fourth wall breaking acting. Loved it. That's a really fun fact. I think you
I think my favorite I said like the I winking thing when she was under the water. But one of my favorite
ones while in conversation was when she was disguised as the widow and she goes to a Twix, buries
Tewkesbury, sorry, Tewkesbury is a state.

[00:33:28.380]
And they kind of announce her presence as this widow as she kind of plays into the camera because
his I don't know, it was just it was really cute and funny. I was like, oh, damn, this this would be so
charming. So that was my role winner. She breaks the fourth wall specifically well in conversation
with others. My second drinking rule is whenever you see young Winola in flashbacks because they
do flashbacks to when it still looks like her and like present day with her mom.

[00:33:57.510]
But whenever you specifically see young Ginola in the flashbacks, take a drink. I have so I do have one
for Sherlock, whenever we see Sherlock holding a book or newspaper, take a drink, because he always
has some some form of literature in his hands is always kind of there's a part where he like we literally
cut to him and he's reading a book for one second. He just closes in, like says something.

[00:34:22.050]
It was so just like, oh yes, I can I can read in the eighteen hundreds if I want you guys to know how
much of a book reader. I'm a bookie, I'm a bookworm. But yeah. So drink every time Sherlock is
spotted holding a book or a newspaper. I had every time A is in disguise. Oh, nice. I have two more of
two more quick ones, and this one just makes my blood boil. Actually they both make my blood boil.

[00:34:55.600]
So every time Mycroft insults Nullah, specifically how she needs to be a bride to be for someone, it
was, oh my God, I was so fucking annoying. I mean, it is setting in the time and how people thought
about women in this whole feminist message as in this. And the thing that killed me so much was he
was just a dick. Like he did not act like an older brother. Yeah. He was a huge asshole.

[00:35:22.420]
Yes. Yes. Just giant stinking asshole and an asshole that just farted.

[00:35:31.000]
And there is a part early on where she says that she doesn't want a husband and she she doesn't need
one. She's fine on her own, he says, but we need that educated out of you, which to me is like such an
evil sentence, like it's disgusting and selfish, like, fuck you, Microsoft. So. So, yeah, take a drink. And
then the damn train whistle that we hear, it's so high pitch. I fucking hate it.

[00:35:56.780]
It so acidic a drink every time you hear that damn. Train blows whistle I was.

[00:36:03.070]
Which is like a nit picky thing for me, but fuck it, I'm throwing it in here. Bad train acting. I hated the
train in this very obnoxious but yeah. So, so those are my drinking rules. OK. Interesting that you
brought up the whole Minecraft thing being like a huge asshole, because I also thought that and I'm
sure everybody did, but I looked into it and I was like it is this character supposed to be an asshole in
like their Wikipedia version of the Sherlock Holmes world?

[00:36:34.930]
He's not. He's actually, like, more intelligent than Sherlock Holmes. And he's like even more observant.
And he can draw conclusions. It's just that he's lazy, he's a lazy person and he just doesn't do that
stuff. So I thought it was interesting, the turn that they took. So they gave, like them more mystery
solving skills to Winola and just kind of leaned more into like he's not he's lazy in the way that he's
going to, like, send somebody else, like another detective out to search for her mom and just really
lean into the whole like we need a villain for this movie, like a more consistent villain.

[00:37:13.750]
So I thought that was pretty interesting. I think that it and again, I want to give I mean, the filmmakers
did a great job. I just want to give credit to the author of the book series. All this is based off of Nancy
Springer. And I think that's how she wrote because Mycroft is in the series. And I think that's how she
kind of wrote these people. And I think that is kind of going to play into my message of the movie.

[00:37:38.380]
But go ahead. Can I tease? Can I like what I thought about these three characters? So, like, this
movie's obviously about feminism and like reform and deciding your own path and fate. And so the
whole debate of like reform is at the forefront of this movie. And the three homes children represent
the three sides to that Mycroft being the stubborn traditionalist that isn't open minded and just wants
to keep things the way they are and enforces it in all the homes being the opposite of that, being the
progressive person that is advocating for reform and fighting for it and saying that we, you know,
change is needed.

[00:38:19.960]
And then there is Sherlock Holmes, who is indifferent at heart. You know, he doesn't have any sort of
malintent towards anyone, but at the same time, it doesn't directly affect him. So he doesn't like, see
why anything needs to change because his day to day doesn't change. Not that he doesn't think
women not that he doesn't think like like women shouldn't vote or anything like that. He just doesn't
really state his claim on it. So his indifference does more harm than good.

[00:38:46.690]
So I think that's kind of like why they like inforce or why Nancy Springer wrote Mycroft to just be like
just raging dick this whole time just because, like like he he represents everything that Winola is up
against. Really. Yeah. And I think we also get another perspective in like from the revolutionaries
perspective, I canola's mom like the person who's willing to go to whatever lengths to make sure that,
oh, that's, you know, some sort of change is accomplished where I mean, she had, like, the bombs and
she was ready to stage a coup on the way.

[00:39:20.800]
Right. So it was very much so like Che Guevara and Fidel Castro, vibes of, you know, upstaging the
Cuban Cuban government. So it was it was interesting. I thought those that's a good point. So but
yeah, I wanted to I kind of go ahead and circle back to the thing that you brought up with you being
surprised. That annoys Mom kind of leaving her and going on to do this. And I honestly, I was
surprised to I was I kind of get it, but I guess you could kind of see her motivation to go into work
towards like the greater good.

[00:39:57.570]
I would think, though, that she may be bringing lot with her. Yeah, but that probably goes against
everything that she's taught her that because if she did that, then she's kind of deciding her fate and
path for Winola and her all things that she wanted in order to choose her own destiny. And Brad Bier,
the director of this, he said that his interpretation was that a Nola's mother doesn't actually want Anila
to come find her, which I find counterintuitive, because then why did she leave her like this?

[00:40:27.750]
Puzzle books, this puzzle box in this cipher for her to I guess maybe just to know that she's OK and
alive. But I feel like that. But I mean, I get so his whole thing is that, you know, she wants another two
to make her own path and destiny and everything. So I get that. But at the same time, I kind of wanted
to see this. Kind of like mentor mentee relationship for Winola, but I guess at the same time, she
doesn't really need it.

[00:40:56.480]
I mean, she's had it her whole life. That's why we get all these flashbacks with her mother, teaching
her all these new things and everything, which I was I was kind of I'm not going to say annoyed, but
solely during the fight scene. I guess we'll go ahead to get into the scenes of the movie. I'm going to
use that as a transition. So one of the things I want to talk about was the fight scene between her and
the Boulder hack, as she calls him.

[00:41:22.160]
I think his character name was Lynn Thorne. So the fight scene between Winola and Lynn Thorn. Mm
hmm. I really like this. This was really intense and kind of dark and pretty edgy for this movie. But as
we see throughout this fight, she there's like flashbacks to her mother training her in jujitsu. And I kind
of rolled my eyes not because she got training, but because I was like, man, did did this movie. The
filmmakers think that the audience would be pissed if they didn't put in a training montage for her.

[00:41:56.510]
You know, I'm saying it's like the whole like the best example is still like the whole like Ray Skywalker
thing. Everybody gets so pissed that we don't see her training for to use the force. We just see her use
it. Do you think people would have been just up in arms and all pissed about if we didn't see her
training montage throughout this fight, like, oh, how does a 16 year old girl know how to do digitizer or
whatever?

[00:42:19.410]
Were you kind of like I am? I absolutely believe they were doing it for those people. Yeah, because it's
like, again, I'm not against seeing the training montage because but it's kind of like that's what it made
me think. Oh, God, was this for the those fucking assholes that would be like, oh, she's just a Mary
Sue. Like, God damn.

[00:42:38.930]
Like everybody has to have a training montage these days. If I still thought it was cool. Yes.

[00:42:46.910]
Oh, no, I'm not saying it needs to be get rid of. I liked it. I'm just saying it kind of threw me out of the
way. Oh, is that who it was for?

[00:42:53.810]
But you're did you start watching these movies from a cynical point of view? I do. I do. I just enjoy it.
Yeah. But anyways, back to enjoying this movie. I really did enjoy everything about this fight scene in
the whole you know, she is you know, they're fighting in the streets. He is like really kicking the shit
out of her. Something that I found interesting. And I didn't know this was symbolic on purpose, was
that when the fight scene kind of came to its climax and they're back in the warehouse with the gun
powder and he brings out a knife, and this whole movie has like, you know, very like feminist
message.

[00:43:29.840]
And he is now trying to attack her with, like, a very phallic thing, how she defeats him with her wits. It's
not like some sort of object or imagery of something that represents like, you know, like womanhood
or whatever, kind of like a phallic thing. It kind of like represent some like, you know, bad manliness. I
won't say negative manliness in this masculinity. Thank you. That was what I was looking for and
there goes my dog.

[00:43:57.890]
But I am sorry if my girlfriend is like this whole little fight scene, the whole like little or not message,
but just the description of an old homes could be like wrapped up in a nutshell in this fight scene,
she's able to, you know, deflect these, you know, toxic, toxic masculinity, you know, his knife and she's
able to fight them off with her. It's not something that makes her a woman or something that makes
her a smart human being.

[00:44:21.950]
And I was I really like that. I thought that was pretty cool imagery there that we got during that fight
scene. Oh, very, very perceptive. I love that. Thank you.

[00:44:35.240]
Something that jumped out to me was I know we already talked a little bit about our portrayal of
Sherlock Holmes, but I think I don't know I don't know why I'm so drawn to this in movies, but I like
when we see the other side of the story, you know what I mean? Because I think when we talked
during, like Batman versus Superman, I spoke about how Superman's always like super romanticized
and people never see never can never point out the negative things in his personality and his
character.

[00:45:06.410]
So I like when we see the counterpoints to that. And we saw a counterpoint to Sherlock where, you
know, we the romanticized version of him is that he's like this great solver of mysteries and he is just
like the ultimate detective. He's the personification of deductive reasoning and all these things. And I
liked that. We got to see the negative side of him, like the negative views that his family has on him,
because he is in simple way.

[00:45:34.910]
He is like a workaholic, right? He's a man consumed with his work and he neglects his family. He
neglects the people in his life to the point where, you know, he doesn't really have a relationship with
anybody. And it's just like. You kind of forget that when you're when you're great in one thing, you
neglect other things in your life. And I thought that was cool that we got to kind of see that on screen
specifically for such a big character where it wasn't really about him, you know what I mean?

[00:46:05.610]
Yeah, but that because we were seeing it from enrollers point of view and I thought that was fun. It
stuck out to me. You make a point, especially with another's point of view of this, because everybody
every time she introduces herself as a Holmes people, people always go, oh, like Sherlock Holmes
sister. Mm hmm. And she's always kind of just like, yeah, him. But like, you don't really know how he is
kind of thing.

[00:46:28.800]
Yeah. You only see one side. Yeah, exactly. She doesn't exactly say that, but she kind of gives that
attitude towards or that that's kind of the attitude of her response towards that. Mm hmm. Going back
to like the movie as a whole, not specifically a scene. Have you seen a series of unfortunate events or
read the books? Yes, I've read I've read the first few books like the first four or five books. And I did
see that Jim Carrey movie that I didn't care for.

[00:46:56.640]
But I haven't watched I haven't watched the Netflix series, though, OK, I felt like this this book series
maybe has a lot of influence from a series of unfortunate events because I can see that like. Right,
because we have like those three kids and pretty much their ultimate mystery is finding out what
happened to their parents. Right. But then we have like a series of like 13 books of on their journey to
finding out the mystery behind their parents.

[00:47:25.380]
Like, people are trying to kill them or they get caught up in a side quest. And I felt like this movie was
like that. And I kind of thought that that was the direction we were going to go where Winola is looking
for her mom. And then she just gets distracted with the side quests to help out the Mark Marqués
mark, whatever his name is, to help out the boy, and that this was a side quest and that I was very
surprised when we saw the mom at the end.

[00:47:56.800]
Like to be completely honest, I did not think we were going to see her. I thought that was going to be.
A loose thread in that this was going to be like a series of movies where it would be answered
eventually and we get a little puzzle pieces along the way. So it was it was very surprising for me that
we did get like some sort of ending, like some sort of hard ending just in case, you know, I guess the
movie didn't pan out.

[00:48:19.890]
So, yeah, I still think I mean, it definitely leaves room for for a sequel. No, it does. Yeah. The whole like
threaded with her mom. But yeah, I was always surprised too, because, again, I thought that it was
just going to end with, like some sort of cryptic message from her mom and it was either going to be
like unsolved, partially solved, or like another would solve it. And it's the location to like a different
city.

[00:48:43.410]
And so then it's kind of like that's where the next adventure is going on to, you know. Yeah. So, yeah,
no, I like that. I see in that that I wanted to bring up was early on. It was, it was a scene, it was when
Sherlock and Mycroft first come back to the to the estate and they're playing billiards and they are
deciding Angela's future over a game of billiards. And they're not like wagering, but they're just
discussing it as they play billiards.

[00:49:14.970]
And it's you know, we're seeing both sides of the argument, Sherlock. It's like she's smart. She has her
wits about her. She could be resourceful and useful. Like, I don't I think I don't think my mom definitely
educated her.

[00:49:30.120]
I don't really think that we need to send her to a finishing school. But he still like on the fence, not like
he's not really advocating super hard. And Microsoft, as, of course, you know, like she's you know,
she's added luggage. She's you know, she's just dead weight. She needs to be a bride to be and go to
finishing school like they're kind of arguing her destiny without consulting her about it, you know? And
again, it gives this whole context or commentary on just men deciding what a young woman should
become and she has zero say in the matter.

[00:50:06.450]
So, again, in a nutshell, sums up what this movie, what she's up against at her. And like the the the
women in her day, we're up against. Yeah, yeah. No, that's true. But yeah, no, I agree with what you
said. I feel like this movie was a social commentary in the direction of feminism and and how, you
know, women were viewed from the from the perspective of men, especially with the whole like they
consider them uneducated voters in terms of like women's rights when really like we get this is not
the case.

[00:50:40.470]
Right. And we get hints of that throughout the movie when, you know, I was trying to see, like, what
types of events that her mom is is planning with all her all her cohorts, her cohort, um, where they're
kind of like operating in secrecy. It just felt ridiculous that it's even an argument. It was even an
argument ever at any point. Right. Because it's just so like obviously not supposed to be an issue
today.
[00:51:05.610]
So, yeah. And to be clear, if we think we're saying something that's like historically inaccurate, we're
not experts on the matter, but just kind of our takeaways is this kind of it was obvious to us how
frustrating this was. I mean, we're not even, you know, women, obviously, but it was just, you know,
like the character Minecraft, like we talked about, represented everything that she was up against.
And he was an incredibly frustrating character to watch and just deal with.

[00:51:32.700]
And like, we're not exactly even the target of, like who who's receiving his whole, like, angry message
and everything. It was still just incredibly frustrating. It just makes your blood boil. So, yeah. And even
the thing that stuck out to me was that it wasn't just the men in this movie. It was a lot of women, too,
were like part of like just part of cogs in this whole machine, especially Fiona Shaw's character, the
head mistress of the finishing school.

[00:52:01.890]
I mean, you know, she's part of it. She's still just she still holds all the ideals of the of the traditionalist.
And even though our main villain, the Dowager. I think I'm saying I'm saying that. Right. Um, the
Francis de la Tour's character, she was the the widow, the grandmother that was putting the hit out on
her grandson to experience. Um, I didn't know. So I went to IMDB because I was trying to figure out
Francis Delatour, his character's name.

[00:52:31.590]
And it's because I don't recall hearing it in the movie besides his grandmother or widow. But on IMDB,
she's listed as just the dowager. And I looked up what that is, and that is a widow with a title or a
property derived from her late husband, which is exactly what she is. What she is. Yeah. And that was
there was a scene between her and the Nullah that I really liked. It's like one of those scenes on the
second watch.

[00:52:57.870]
It made more sense to me because the first watch I was just trying to because there's so many. Clues
and nods and stuff going on, I was like trying to keep track and also taking notes for this, like I missed
some stuff, but on the rewash when I got to this part, like, oh, this was so foreshadowing, like this was
because she's pretty much the dowser, the widow. She's pretty much saying how her family was
fortunate enough to be or her family inherited, kind of like these rights to have like, you know, to vote
in I like on the reform, stuff like that.

[00:53:31.590]
And they have a duty to protect London and like these like ancient ideals that they have and they need
to protect it from the new age thinkers. And she says that her son was a thinker and she suspects
that her grandson and Winola are new thinkers as well. And we later found out she put hits out on all
these people because she doesn't want their vote to swing anything and change London. So it was it
was a very interesting thing. And again, it wasn't coming from a man.

[00:54:01.890]
It was coming from another woman in that time who was just set in her ways thinking this way
because, you know, this is what it's been told to everybody. Mm hmm.

[00:54:13.080]
Wasn't she kind of saying all of that to Winola in a way that she was talking about nature, but it was
more of like a double meaning? I think so. About the government. Yeah, because I felt like, you know,
kind of kind of looked up to her in that scene specifically, which is why, like, when we find out the
grandma is the villain at the end, it just really hit Winola to the top of the boy because it was like,
damn, like I looked up to you and like you're the one who's trying to kill us and like, you're the one
who's behind all of this.

[00:54:41.400]
Yeah. So it kind of give it give a little more gravity to to that realization in that moment. But that's
interesting. Did you feel like this movie this is OK. So this is a mystery movie, right? Mm hmm. Did you
feel like you wanted to have the mystery be solvable in some way, or were you fine with her winola
kind of figuring out the clues as we went? I wanted to watch her figure out the clues because that to
me was something that was so fun, especially like when she went through, uh, to experience Tree
House and she was kind of seeing everything, like she saw all the clues that he planted.

[00:55:23.580]
She said, OK, these things were obvious. This was just to derail the investigation. Like she could tell
the things that he planted and the things that he did it. I thought that was really cool. And that's how
she knew to go to the to the marketplace where he was selling flowers. That's how she needed to go
find him there. So I really liked all that. OK, I always I always find myself struggling with mystery
movies, especially because since the movie Clue.

[00:55:48.480]
Right, where they kind of give you like hints to to who who has done it, doing it. And you kind of feel
involved in the movie. And I think with this movie, because it was so fun, I wanted to be involved and I
wanted to solve the mystery. But at the same time, it's like that's not what it's about. But that's that's
something I get I get stuck on. So I felt like I needed to kind of take matters into my own hand of a
mystery.

[00:56:14.790]
I felt like there was an anagram, potential anagram of this movie. OK, so the anagram is when, like,
you rearrange the words what what Winola kept doing throughout the movie to decipher messages
between her and her mom. And so, you know, legates the name May Beatrice Posi to Tewkesbury, a
state everyone there like the grandma. That's when she was the widow. That was the name that she
gave herself. So I was like, OK, that's got to be that's got to be like some sort of anagram for
something.

[00:56:45.030]
So I, I came up with two OK. Right. And two very close ones. And I'm just going to no I, I did not like do
these out by hand. I am not that smart in that way.

[00:56:58.950]
I definitely typed this into a computer and then put in some keywords for the search. Anyways, I think
it's the anagram might be a masterpiece by yoa and in Spanish yo means I saw a masterpiece by I.

[00:57:14.270]
I love this Jarett you say. You know what she was a Billy.

[00:57:21.060]
Bobby Brown was born in Spain actually. So there you go. She's a little nod to the birthplace and then.
Yep. Got that fact. That was it. So it's probably both but it came up with the other one was a piece, a
mystery. So piece like world peace, bio like biology. We get into botany. You know, she's talking about
the flowers. Also SUV biography maybe, but OK. Yeah, biography too.

[00:57:52.260]
And it's the mystery.

[00:57:53.260]
So a masterpiece by a you or a piece by mystery. And that's finally solve the mystery, right. That's fine,
I like that. I would not have thought of to even do that because it it's obvious, you know, her and her
mother love, she said her mom loves to do, like, wordplay, you know, play all these word games. That
makes sense that she would try to do something like that. But that's really good listener.

[00:58:19.380]
If you have other other things that you can spell out of that, hit us up. Just tweet at us at film on the
rocks. I'll be really fun.

[00:58:28.680]
Well, like I mean, this movie is brand spanking new. This movie came out like four days ago. Right,
three days ago. So there's not a lot of I mean, there's no trivia. There's really no trivia out there for this
movie other than the fact that that estate sued Netflix. I was like, OK, I got to come up with my own
and and share it for the pod. So that's what I got. I love it, dude.

[00:58:54.180]
Were there were there any other scenes you want to bring up? No, I think I think I've made my peace.
OK, yeah. This I mean, there's lots of good moments in this movie. I mean, we could sit here, talk for,
like, probably like another 45 minutes about like other small. There's a lot of small scenes I liked, like
the whole talk between Sherlock and Edith. Edith was the character that was teaching jujitsu.

[00:59:18.660]
And they had like this good conversation about encompassing who he is and how how how
indifferent he is and how he really needs to. He really used to pick a side and pick the right side and
advocate for it. And that's pretty much what that whole thing's about. But, yeah, there's lots of small
moments in this movie that were really good. But yeah, if if somehow you've gotten this far in the
podcast without actually checking out this movie, be sure to go check it out or watch it, because I
picked up so much stuff on the second rewash now that I knew what to expect.

[00:59:48.690]
But let's let's get into the message of the movie. So we've kind of talked about a bunch of things, you
know, that the women's suffrage, you know, feminism and everything, what what sort of messages
that you kind of pick out of this.

[01:00:01.470]
I mean, obviously, that that was the main one is feminism and not letting somebody else determine
your own path. And I felt like it wasn't even just from like an individual's point of view. It was more of
like women like you we have to make now we women have to make their own path and not let men
kind of determine the future. And I feel like that was relevant to today with like RBG Ruth Bader
Ginsburg recent passing because like, she opened so many doors for women and it's like it's
devastating to lose her.

[01:00:36.480]
And this movie coming out, I mean, I think all of us look like the same day that she passed. Obviously,
it wasn't planned, right? Yeah. I don't even think about that. But it just kind of it yeah. It hit different
watching it and like kind of knowing that. So it was interesting. Yeah. I kind of same thing, you know,
ideal's on, you know, feminist ideals and everything make your own destiny and it's, you know, not
letting the pressure of others, you know, impact what you want to do.

[01:01:09.420]
And we see this both through Winola into experience. And this isn't I mean I mean, it is heavy handed
and feminism on, you know, like women's suffrage in this and letting them decide if they want to do.
But also because, you know, feminism is about, you know, equality, right. For both men and women.
And we kind of see Twix very kind of going through his own struggles with that, like his family wants
to send him into the army, which, you know, you can kind of associate.

[01:01:32.910]
It's been like a very masculine thing, and especially at the time in the 19th century when this movie
took place. But he he's not interested in that. You know, he's interested in botany and, you know,
studying flowers and plants and things like that, which, you know, kid, you know, maybe not maybe
seem not so masculine possibly. But that's what his interests are. It's what he wants to pursue. And
he also wants to have a say in in the form because he because he has a vote, he has a right to vote in
it and he wants to do what he thinks.
[01:02:04.520]
That's right. And so it's so we're kind of seeing on both sides how it affects both men and women in
this movie and also both of them, like I up against, you know, what path do they want to take in the
pressures that they're trying to overcome. So that way they can do what they want to do. So, yeah, it
was very obvious and clear in this movie at latest points where Winola directly looks at the audience
and talks about it pretty much tells you, like, this is stupid, you know, or especially the whole dressing
room scene where, you know, she's having to pick out like corsets and everything.

[01:02:40.320]
And she's like, this is what a lady looks like or whatever. And she is making fun of my craft and
everything. So, yeah, I mean, it's it's right on the nose. I don't think there's anything to I'm not calling it
a shallow message at all. Understand, this movie did not hide what it was about and I appreciated
that.

[01:02:59.700]
And you brought up a good point about how. The boy in the movie knew, like knew about flowers and
he could sew and stuff, and I thought it was cool because he was like I learned it from my dad and
even Angela was like surprised. She was like, well, that's that's crazy. And then the boy was surprised
about some things and learned. And it was like I learned it from my mom. And it was just like through
generations, like, you just they're not following social norms.

[01:03:28.200]
Toxic social norms will say some of those fun. Definitely. Um. So big question schtuck, should this
movie have a sequel? I think so. I think we shouldn't have seen the mom. I guess maybe that's how
the book ends. But it just I'd like a sequel. I think it would be fun, even though I'm not like the direct
audience, in my opinion, it was still fun to watch, especially with the fourth wall breaking.

[01:03:57.990]
But make it shorter and please. This movie was two hours, 30 minutes too long. The sequencing was
way off.

[01:04:04.530]
It could have been a lot shorter if they just kind of streamlined things a little bit more. But what do you
think? Absolutely huge. Yes, this movie absolutely both deserves and I think needs a sequel because I
want to because I'm still so curious of what her mom's plan is and there's still so much to be told. And
also, I'm really excited with how this ends, because it ends with Sherlock stepping up saying that he
now wants to be her ward.

[01:04:30.090]
So I really want to see there's like a buddy cop movie with them to, you know, I want to see them
solving crimes together, but. Yeah, and. One little deviation I saw from the film adaptation was that
the book series were mostly about her solving missing persons. I mean, she is solving a missing
person in this, but it kind of turns into a murder mystery as well. So I don't know if that was I don't I'm
suspecting the murder aspect was added to this, but I don't know.

[01:04:59.300]
I don't know that for a fact. But so maybe her in Sherlock solving missing person mysteries together
while trying to find her mom, I think they'll be a lot of fun. And again, Sherlock doesn't like it. You can
still hold some restraint because, you know, this is an old story.

[01:05:14.210]
But I would like to know just because you like that brother sister crime fighting or crime solving duo
would be a lot of fun. Mm hmm. Based more like the relationship versus like the Sherlock aspect of it.
Absolutely. Yeah, that'd be cool. So we forgot to bring up something. Oh, it's you and I had talked
about before we recorded was just how we watched this movie and how we felt about this movie's
release. Returning listeners know that we normally don't cover brand new movies.
[01:05:45.770]
And it was when I saw the trailer was like, oh, that looks like a lot of fun. I definitely want to cover that.
They'll be great. And we needed a movie for September.

[01:05:52.940]
And it was so much fun watching a new movie because, you know, like, we can't really go to theaters
right now.

[01:06:00.500]
And it's like, you know, Netflix home release was a lot of fun. And I normally don't really care for
Netflix movies, to be honest.

[01:06:08.270]
There's only been like a handful of Netflix series I've actually liked. And this was like the first Netflix
movie legitimately enjoyed. So it was a lot of fun. And I watched it on my projector. It was a brand
new movie never seen before. Everybody was on social media. Oh, watching all the homes tonight.
And it just kind of felt like I was back in a because since even though I was in the theater, I just felt like
I was back in a movie theater was like with this experience, I knew you were watching at the same
time.

[01:06:37.370]
I was. So it was kind of like, oh, can't wait to talk about this, you know, like no spoilers that don't spoil
anything for me, you know, kind of thing. So it was it was a lot of fun. I really enjoyed this whole home
release with it and everything was a lot of fun. Yeah. My girlfriend and I made it like a big home date
type of thing, like we went over to be.

[01:06:54.980]
It's a grocery store. We went over to a grocery store. We got like movie theater popcorn and like all the
little snacks, our little drinks. And like, we turn off all the lights and played it on the TV. And it was it
was a lot of fun. Just kind of you like like you were saying, feel like we're at the movies, but we're at
home not just because of the state of the world. It was it was exciting.

[01:07:16.210]
It felt normalized a little bit. Yeah, right. Yeah. It was a lot of fun. It was like a global date night.
Everybody was on, I'm sure. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Well, it was a lot of fun. There's a lot of I'm sure
we'll remember this like watching this movie, like in years in the future will be like, you know, this was
a nice little shining spot right in the middle of a catastrophe, you know.

[01:07:42.750]
So absolutely. I totally agree.

[01:07:46.750]
Um, before we get to some of our show announcements, withdrawing our shutter winners and our we
have a really nice letter I want to read from one of our listeners. Do you have any final thoughts on the
movie? Um, final thoughts? No, it was a fun movie, just a little bit long. Wouldn't want to see a sequel.
That was it. More of a summary about you? Yeah. Loved it. Highly recommend it. If you were kind of
like borderline on your first free watch.

[01:08:13.620]
Watch it again, because I think that you'll pick up on it and you'll really enjoy it.

[01:08:17.640]
So loved. And also, I'm excited for the potential sequel. Apparently, Millie, Bobby Brown, her in the
director, Brad Pitt, are working on trying to get a sequel together. So I think that there's lots of
potential. So we're going to transition into some of our announcements. I want to first quickly thank
everybody who's been listening. This has, you know, been a really fun year, podcasting, some of the
best parts I've been getting, like all the feedback and like really nice reviews or even just like really
nice emails that we've gotten from some of our listeners.

[01:08:51.930]
We got a super sweet letter from a listener named Britney. I was I meant to read this in our August
talks on the rocks, and I completely dropped the ball and so sorry, Britney, but I really wanted to
include it here because we're not doing any talks on the rocks this month because you want to hear
my ranking intelligence is better than Batman versus Superman.

[01:09:12.660]
OK, so this was something I was supposed to read like over a month ago. And she wrote this in in
reference to our School of Rock episode. So Britney writes, Hey, guys, I just listen to the School of
Rock episode and loved it. This movie is my personal top three favorite movies of all time. This is
because this movie is just so heartwarming. Hilarious. Got me to open myself up to more rock music.
One of the reasons it holds such a special place in my heart is because it was the first movie my best
friend and I saw without parents.

[01:09:47.310]
My parents got to go see a movie while we saw this one and we felt so grown up independent at the
age of 13 to 14 years old. My best friend from middle school unfortunately passed away nearly five
years ago. So I so I do still think of her every time I watch this. Thank you guys for this podcast and
for covering this movie.

[01:10:05.820]
Britney, I just wanted to kind of share that it was a and she was OK with me sharing it, but really sweet
letter and we love getting things like that. And I know that was one that Levi and I did, but. Yeah,
Sherratt. Levi, yeah. So what was a Levi Phet? I think it was the one. Well I was going to go Levi Obbie.
Levi Kenobi. OK, I was going to give him a different name every time I to see which one land.

[01:10:34.020]
I love that. But Britney, thank you so much. I'm so sorry to hear about passing your friend. I'm really
happy to hear that, you know, you get a nice warm memories, just, you know, watching movies like
this. My best friend, he is all the way across the country. But we have like these really weird movies
that we grew up watching together. One of them is the core. I don't know if anybody's ever seen this
movie.

[01:10:56.040]
It's a really bad sci fi movie, but I love it. It's a movie that we both love is a bad movie that we love. So
I always think of him whenever I watch that. So I get that, but in a different way. So, Britney, thank you
for writing it. It really made my day when I got that email, so thank you for that. And Schoolbag is a
great movie, so everybody should watch that once a year.

[01:11:17.580]
I think it's fun.

[01:11:19.380]
It's really fun. We got two winners for our Schutter contest. They are going to be getting a free month
of Schutter on us starting October 1st for spooky season. Our first winner is Zach from the Midwest
Meltdown podcast. Thank you, Zach, for writing in and his review submission said that absolutely love
listening to these guys. Awesome chemistry and just a great time discussing film with some
awesome drinking rules thrown in. Highly recommend my dog is awake, but so so Zach, I will be
getting in contact with you about all the information and giving you some recommendations.

[01:11:57.420]
And Nate, who is our second winner?

[01:12:00.060]
Our second winner is Scott from Shoot the Flick podcast. In his review, he says everyone loves
drinking games. And loves movies, so I'm the year 2020. Why not combine them? These guys are
really funny and make up a lot of fun drinking rules for movies. Definitely sit back, open a beer and
have a good time with them on the rocks. Dope review like that. Yeah. Also want to say, Scott, DMV
has his review and I love his Twitter handle.

[01:12:29.900]
Scotty maybe knows, which is a really funny reference joke to the movie your trip. That's I'm not going
to explain it here, but yeah. That's a I love that. Well, thank you, everybody for listening.

[01:12:43.490]
Scott and Zach, I will get in touch with you all and be sure to stay tuned, because in a couple of days,
October 1st, we got our first Halloween episode coming out. I'm so excited for everything that we got
going on. We got a huge lineup. If you're if you're one of our patrons, you're going to get a newsletter,
letting no letting you know everything that's going on.

[01:13:04.250]
But you guys will see what we've got planned. We got a lot of stuff coming. So I'm really excited for
October and it's going to be a great month.

[01:13:11.870]
Also want to say we will be doing talks on rocks at the end of October. And please, if you want to
shout out, please send in any sort of Halloween memories you have, like, you know, some fun
costumes you did any funny trick or treating stories, spooky stories. What do you like to do for
Halloween? How do you celebrate? You celebrate at parties. Do you bench movies like me? I just like
to stay in, pick out a candy and watch movies all night.

[01:13:36.110]
So just write in to our podcast, email dotcom and let us know any sort of fun Halloween traditions or
fun Halloween stories. You got your new traditions with the state of Halloween coming up this year.
Exactly. A little different. A little fun. Maybe send in some pictures of costumes. Oh, that'll be a lot of
fun. Yes. And we'll share them. Or you just like tag us and we'll share them. Either way, they'll be a lot
of fun.

[01:14:01.820]
All right, guys.

[01:14:02.450]
Well, thank you for listening to our episode on Winola Holmes from 20/20 not to 2002.

[01:14:10.070]
And will we all have a new episode coming out in a few days? Bye, guys, I.
